#Chemistry
# 2022-11-06 Work

1. Dalton's atomic theory stated that:
	1. All matter is made of atoms, which are indivisible
	2. All atoms are identical in mass and properties.
	3. Two or more different types of atoms combined to create compounds.
	4. Chemical reaction is the rearrangement of atoms.
2. J.J. Thomson discovered electron by placing two electric plates around the cathode ray. The ray deflected away from the electric plate that is negatively charged and bend toward the plate that is positively charged.  This show that the cathode ray was composed of negatively-charged particles called electron.
3. Thomson's plum pudding model showed that all atoms contain electrons in a sphere of positive-charged particles, similar to blueberries in a muffin.
4. Due to the lack of understanding of the nucleus of an atom, Thomson's atomic model failed to explain how the positive charge holds the electrons in the atom.
5. Large amount of alpha particles bombarded towards the gold, passed through the sheet. This concludes that an atom consist of a large empty space.
6. Rutherford's model of atom described atoms as tiny and consist of a positively charged core called nucleus. And there are negatively charged compound circulate around like the planetary system. This negatively charged constituents are called electron. This model failed to explain the stability of electron in a circular path.
7. Because the line spectrum of the hydrogen atom spectrometry showed that there are only a few discrete wavelengths. If the electrons continuously move toward the nucleus and emitting the radiation while doing that, there would be a continuous wavelength on the spectrum.  
8. Because hydrogen only have one electron. This is easier as he didn't have to take into account the effect that electron act on one another.
9. Niel's Bohr stated that only certain special orbits are allowed inside the atom and while revolving in these orbits, electrons do not radiate energy that make them stay in the discrete orbit.
10. Only a certain discrete amount of energy or quanta can be absorbed by an electron as radiation. This make the quantization of energy is analogous to a ball on a flight of steps.
	1. The orbit in the Bohr-Rutherford model of the atom is similar to the planet orbit around a star. And the “Orbital” in quantum mechanical model of the atom are cloud of electron that corresponding to the probability of the existence of electron.
11. A photon is an elementary particle that behave as particle and wave at the same time. Photon contain a package of energy called quanta. Quantum, on the other hand, is a discrete quantity of energy proportional to the frequency of radiation it represents.
12. Bohr proposed that electrons were in ground state can absorb photons with certain quanta in order to move to a higher energy lever (excited state). Electrons can also release the photons with a certain amount of quanta to return to ground state.